# Arduino-Security-and-Alarm-System-Project
The alarm activates in ten seconds once pressing the A button. For police work objects it uses associate unhearable sensing element, and once the alarm detects one thing a buzzer starts emitting a sound. so as to prevent the alarm, we'd like to insert a four digits password. The planned password is 1234 however we have a tendency to even have the likelihood to vary it. By pressing the B button we have a tendency to enter the password change menu wherever first we'd like to enter this password so as to continue and so enter the new four digits password. Once the password is modified, following time we have a tendency to activate the alarm, we'll solely be able to stop the alarm by coming into the new password. If we have a tendency to enter a wrong password we'll get a message that we'd like to undertake once more.


INTRODUCTION
The alarm activates in 10 seconds after pressing the A button. For detecting objects it uses an ultrasonic sensor, and once the alarm detect something a buzzer starts emitting a sound. In order to stop the alarm we need to insert a 4 digits password. The preset password is 1234 but we also have the possibility to change it.By pressing the B button we enter the password change menu where first we need to enter the current password in order to continue and then enter the new 4 digits password. Once the password is changed, the next time we activate the alarm, we will only be able to stop the alarm by entering the new password. If we enter a wrong password we will get a message that we need to try again.

The system prepared by using the mentioned components will also ensure that any unintended movement or action detected in the absence would project the details to the dashboard.Next the Arduino code. As the code is a bit longer, for better understanding.We need to define the buzzer and the ultrasonic sensor’s pins, define some variables needed for the program.
In the setup section, we just need to define the pin modes for the buzzer and the ultrasonic sensor.In the loop section, first we check whether the alarm is activated or not. So if the alarm is not activated, on the Screen we will have the home screen of the program which offers two options, A for activating the alarm and B for changing the password.
The buzzer will produce a 200 milliseconds sound and the activateAlarm variable will become true.
So the next step is that the ultrasonic sensor will constantly check whether the currently measured distance is smaller than the initial distance, corrected by a value of 10 cm’s, and if that’s true it means an object has appeared in front of the sensor and the alarm will be activated. The tune() function will activate the buzzer and the enterPassword() custom function will be called.



If we enter more than 4 digits or press the sharp button the previously entered digits will be cleared so we can type them again from begin.
If the password is correct the alarm will be deactivated, the buzzer will stop producing sound and we will get back to the home screen. But if we entered password was wrong the buzzer won’t stop and we will have to try to enter the correct password again.
We used Bluetooth to connect with the system for more secure system.
 
Arduino UNO uses ATMEGA328P-PU micro-controller and this controller comes pre-loaded with a Arduino UNO boot-loader. Basically boot-loader is a little piece of code that allows you to program the flash memory of the Arduino’s atmega328p via serial or USB instead of using an ICSP programmer.you are making a project based on Arduino UNO & you have made a customized PCB then you will be requiring boot- loaded Atmega328 micro-controller. This is a ATmega328 in DIP package, pre-loaded with the Arduino (16MHz) Boot-loader. This will allow you to use Arduino code in your custom embedded project without having to use an actual Arduino board. To get this chip working with Arduino IDE, you will need an external 16MHz crystal or resonator, a 5V supply, and a serial connection. You should select the Arduino UNO board within the Arduino IDE.



Security is provided without interfere of a human being using this implementation. All the times, intrusion is detected irrespective to the presence of a person. This implementation can be used for providing security in a very low cost and in an efficient way. Many systems are either costly or less accurate but this implementation of such security system can give a limited cost based efficient security. Thereby, we can conclude this is an efficient security providing implementation which uses an ultrasonic sensor, Arduino as major component. Depending on the aim behind this security alarm implementation, it can be concluded that this security alarm can be implemented for many fields as well as to defend different expensive, unique and rare things.
